[Music]
what is up
youtube it's your girl evelyn and i am
back with the
season 4 episode 6 recap of wynonna earp
as always there will be spoilers so
proceed with caution
episode 6 begins by showing us the
moments
leading up to jeremy drowning nicole
[Music]
if you'll recall from episode 5 jeremy's
research
uncovered a few potentially dangerous
cures
for nicole's frog spewing ailment one of
which
was an antidote soup but when a
hypnotized nicole
poured out the soup they were left with
only one
option to drown nicole in a salt bath
thereby cleansing her body of hex which
on the surface seems like a terrible
idea
but jeremy is able to transfer nicole's
consciousness
into a frog where she can safely wait
out the cleansing of her body
then be transferred back into it but the
moment nicole's consciousness
is transferred into the frog
margot is notified via her own dead frog
and she's so upset she sends reaper
billy
to kill waverly meanwhile doc and
wynonna are busy questioning
rosie the revenant rosie explains that
sometime after her baby stealing plans
fell through
she sought out a little sexual healing
to help her cope
unfortunately rosie chose to fornicate
with the wife of fellow revenant
creepy phil who in response rounded up a
posse
and went after her rosita fled to the
rock island
a place known to cause unbearable pain
to all
revenants in the hopes that phil and his
crew
wouldn't dare follow phil's posse
chickened out
but phil didn't and the moment he joined
rosita on the island
an earthquake ripped through purgatory
and
not only did phil's posse disappear but
rosita and phil no longer felt any pain
not long after rosita literally kicked
phil off the rock island
causing him to spontaneously combust
and poor rosie's been stuck there ever
since
afraid to step foot off the protective
rock
wynonna tells rosie that the earthquake
along with the disappearing revenants
happened when bolshar broke the earth
curse
and when the eagle-eyed dock spots a few
pieces of the evil blocking mineral
immolite scattered around the base of
the rock island
rosie's plight suddenly makes sense
before the earth curse was broken the
amyloid caused the revenants
excruciating pain but in the aftermath
of the curse
the mineral has become a shield of sorts
protecting rosie from the fate of her
fellow revenants
and while wynonna and doc try to figure
out how to transport rosie from the
rock island to the scorned woman
sanctuary without killing her
rachel is still sneaking around the
clanton junkyard
and after surviving her close encounter
with reaper billy
holt finds her and drags her off
somewhere
back at shorties it's time to
resuscitate nicole
and transfer her consciousness out of
the frog and
back into her body but jeremy has just
run into a huge miscalculation
in an otherwise completely solid plan
nicole's body is submerged in water and
jeremy plan to shock her with an
electric
current to restart her heart except
water and electricity don't mix very
well
but jeremy's lack of foresight quickly
takes a back seat
when reaper billy pops up to kill
waverly
and frog nicole's jar is knocked over
during the fray
while jeremy and nedley search for frog
nicole
waverly runs for her life and just what
it looks like
all hope is lost nicole's consciousness
jumps out of the frog
and a ghost daddy nicole pushes reaper
billy
into the basement saving waverly's life
back at the rock island doc and wynonna
decide to gather as
much ammolite as they can find and
create a path for rosie to walk on
without spontaneously combusting
thankfully the scorned women make it
easy on them
and opens a glowing portal for them to
hop through
that leads straight to the temple doc
stays behind because
well he's a man back at shorties the
gang
still believes nicole's consciousness is
inside one of the frogs
and waverly even resorts to kissing the
frogs
in the hopes that well i'm not entirely
sure
what her thought process behind that was
eventually
ghost daddy nicole realizes she can
control the lights
and uses them to send the gang a message
in morse code
after explaining that she's not inside a
frog
she instructs them to go down to the
basement with reaper billy
nedley and waverly reluctantly head down
and before billy can attack
ghost daddy nicole's consciousness jumps
into him
and forces him to tell waverly the truth
about
margot's curse nicole like billy
made a covenant and used her own life
as collateral which means the clantons
now own
nicole's soul and the only way to unbind
nicole from margo
is to kill them both which actually
might work out since technically
nicole's already dead
so killing margot is the next logical
step
but time is running out the longer
nicole stays dead
the harder it will be to revive her and
waverly
unwilling to risk waiting for wynonna
sets off for the clantons
alone meanwhile wynonna and rosita have
made it to the sanctuary
and wynonna is ready to trade her least
favorite revenant
for peacemaker rosie is outraged by the
betrayal
but wynonna reminds her that she tried
to steal her baby so she can suck it
wynonna demands peacemaker from the
creepy nun
and the nun's true intentions finally
come to light
the woman in the painting was nothing
more than a ruse
and the nun reveals herself to be medea
evil demon sorceress granddaughter of
helios
and just an all-around bad [ __ ] and
what madea
really wants is for wynonna and rosita
to fight to the death using some quick
thinking the ladies distract the nuns
and make a break for it
they barricade themselves in the weapons
room and after
reaching a cautious truce wynonna talks
peacemaker
through her existential crisis and the
gun sword
comes out of hiding and transforms into
the peacemaker
we all know and love madea and her crew
eventually break in and wynonna easily
takes her out with peacemaker
the remaining nuns bow down to wynonna
thankful to
finally be free from the demon medea
turns out
the nuns are all revenants just like
rosie
and the sanctuary like the rock island
protects them
which is probably the happiest ending a
revenant can hope for
plus it's strongly insinuated that rosie
is gonna bone all of them in fact
rosie's so happy she discloses to
wynonna that the
buyer for baby alice was none other than
margot
and while wynonna was busy getting her
sister act on
holt killed rachel and fed her to billy
jk holt actually took rachel to the
sheriff station
and called doc to come get her at the
station
doc and holt have a heartwarming chit
chat about ending the earp
clanton feud once and for all and even
agreed to talk to their respective sides
about calling a truce back at the
junkyard
waverly has just arrived and our
fearless little half angel
confronts margot who still insists she
was the
one who got them out of the garden by
supernaturally
nudging doc toward the correct door home
margot also finally fills in the missing
piece of her agreement with nicole
allegedly nicole agreed to deliver a doc
to margot
as payment because margot who wasn't
even alive during the okay corral
is still big mad about the fact that it
was
doc who single-handedly killed all of
the clantons
waverly tells margo not today and then
does her signature bobo brain fry at
that
exact moment nicole's consciousness
returns to her body
and she takes her first breath a dazed
post-murdering waverly is wandering
around the clan junkyard
when holt and wynonna arrive after
discovering
margot's body holt and wynonna have a
tense standoff
holt demands to know why waverly
murdered his
terrible mother and winona's like [ __ ]
you [ __ ] your mama [ __ ] your daddy
[ __ ] the horse you rode in on [ __ ]
everybody who loves you who cares about
you who is ever supportive thankfully
doc shows up in the nick of time and
talks holt down
but as they walk away wynonna shoots
holt in the back
later that evening a super conflicted
doc
chastises wynonna for shooting hulk and
wynonna tells doc
that she believes her great-grandfather
wyatt
that doc shot first at the o.k corral
she also tells him it was margot who
wanted baby alice
back inside the homestead the gang is
taking a
much deserved round of shots and after
six episodes of waiting waverly finally
gets an
answer to her proposal
[Music]
she left her home to find where she
mother's scared to leave
[Music]
a place where it seems that love will
come
around so don't stay
you'll regret it all too much
just wait
[Music]
and that is it for the recap thank you
so much for watching and i hope you guys
will stick around
through the extended hiatus i have more
wynonna earp content on the way
as well as some deep dives top fives
and of course recaps i'm also working on
a new series called
ship battles where i pit your favorite
ships against each other
in a bid to find out which ship is the
greatest ship of all time
so make sure you hit that subscribe
button and i'll see you guys next week
you